adding doc describes What is data reconciliation means in the context of the project (#63)
microsoft/ccf-app-samples: data-reconciliation-app/docs/data-reconciliation.md

# What is data reconciliation means in the context of the project?

> ## _Reconciliation in finance_

Reviewer: Per updated requirements, we will to make our app more generalized. I recommend we remove any specific LEI or banking language from this document. 

This top level section could say something along the lines of:
Generally speaking, data reconciliation is used describe a verification phase where the target data is compared against original source data to address a range of issues: 
- Missing records
- Missing values
- Incorrect values
- Duplicated records
- Badly formatted values
- Broken relationships across tables or systems

However, in many scenarios, there may not exist a single source of truth to compare your target data against. Rather, institutions can come together in a network to consolidate, compare and identify issues with their own data. One of the benefits of a CCF network is that these institutions can do so confidently, without actually sharing their data with one another. 

Some potential use cases may involve:
- In finance, a number of financial institutions coming together to predict the price of a derivative.
- In finance, a number of financial institutions coming together to reconcile reference data or ticker symbols. 
- In healthcare, a number of hospitals coming together to reconcile hospital records for patients.

Author: done

Reconciliation in finance is the process of comparing different business entities, accounts, amounts, data points, etc. to find out if they are matching or to explain why there are differences between them.

> Data Reconciliation important because it will address a range of issues such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data Reconciliation is important because it will address a range of issues such as:
```

- Missing records
- Missing values
- Incorrect values
- Duplicated records
- Badly formatted values
- Broken relationships across tables or systems

![reconciliation diagram](data-reconciliation.png)

> ## Use case

Reviewer: I would recommend we remove this section until we identify the specific use case :)

Author: done

> In the last few years, regulatory legislation has enforced a unique Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) which allows all financial industry participants to standardize how they reference counter-parties and clients. This law has been the impetus for all financial industry participants to clean up their reference data and adopt this new identification system. It has been inefficient and expensive for industry participants to maintain reference data. These datasets are critical for trade processing, risk management and regulatory reporting and therefore a high degree of accuracy is required. Yet the only way to have certainty regarding their accuracy is constant review and refresh against authoritative sources of all data, an enormous and costly task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the last few years, regulatory legislation has enforced a unique Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) which allows all financial industry participants to standardize how they reference counter-parties and clients. This law has been the impetus for all financial industry participants to clean up their reference data and adopt this new identification system. It has been inefficient and expensive for industry participants to maintain reference data. These datasets are critical for trade processing, risk management and regulatory reporting and therefore a high degree of accuracy is required. Yet the only way to have certainty regarding their accuracy is constant review and refresh against authoritative sources of all data, an enormous and costly task.
```

Rather than collaborating with data providers and hiring human resources to keep these LEIs in sync, financial industry participants could leverage confidential compute platforms to create a consortium network and reconciliation service to clean up all their reference data. This would improve data quality in a compliant and cost-effective way through industry collaboration.

## Proposed solution

The CCF network will be used to host a reconciliation service where different parties with membership (banks and data providers) will be able to submit their own data to be reconciled against "each other's data" in a confidential manner without exposing the data to other members in the network.

> The solution will use the voting process to reconcile members' data; on the data submission, when new record is submitted the app will check if it does not exist in the key-value store, it will be added; otherwise, a vote is added to this record with a member ID, and the vote will be "agree" if data attributes match; otherwise, it will "disagree."

Reviewer: love this section

This solution is generic to handle scenarios of data collaboration amongst different parties, and share reconciled results out on that data.

## Assumptions

- The application will accept data that conforms to the `agreed schema`
- The schema must has a unique identifier and attributes associated with this identifier
- The Data is compared across all members, no one source of truth
- In order for our app to provide a report on the data, ~80% of members need to have submitted their data

> - If a record is determined to be out of consensus with other members in the network, you cannot share the value that other members had for that record (each member must have access to his own reconciled records only)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If a record is determined to be out of consensus with other members in the network, you cannot share the value that other members had for that record (each member can only have access to their own reconciled records)
```

## Application

The reconciliation application will consist of three main services.

- Data ingestion
  - Accept single or batch of records
  - Accept data as CSV file format
- Data reconciliation

>   - The voting concept will be used to reconcile data (all members submit their records as opinion)

Reviewer: thank you for driving clarity into what data reconciliation actually means...very helpful!

  - Data is compared across all members, all members' data carry equal weight to reach consensus.
  - Reconciliation is on each record, not on the entire data set.
- Data reporting
  - API Endpoint: Members will query for results
    - Query by specific record by `a unique identifier`
    - Query all data

## Data flow

- Members will submit their own data records in accordance (`with the agreed schema`)
- Data will be processed and stored in key-value store, with members voting on each record
- For each member, a list of a reconciled records can be requested
- The data mapping and reference will depend on `a unique identifier`

![reconciliation-sample diagram](reconciliation-sample.png)

## Resources

> - [https://www.guru99.com/what-is-data-reconciliation.html](https://www.guru99.com/what-is-data-reconciliation.html)

Reviewer: love this conceptual diagram

> - [https://managedlei.com/blog/legal-entity-identification-data-mapping](https://managedlei.com/blog/legal-entity-identification-data-mapping)

Reviewer: Great work taking requirements + concepts into an application of what this may look like. 

One small nit - can we update wording from bank 1, 2, 3, 4--> members? Or anything more generalized.

Reviewer: One question looking for clarification on - in the reconciled data store table, is A and D agree and disagree?
Do all CCF apps use A and D to capture votes?

Author: What I saw in ccf proposal voting, the usage of ["Accept" or "Reject"],  I will check the forum app for more context.
